## PIC MOTOR CONTROLLER FOR BLDC MOTOR

  The goal of the final project was to design a system that took in real world data, analyzed that data, controlled something as a result of that data, and communicate with either a computer or through wireless means.  The system that was created was a Motor Controller for a brushless DC (BLDC) motor capable of communicating over a Controller Area Network (CAN) using Microchip’s dsPIC33EV256GM102 and CAN transceivers.

  On a top level view, the system reads a potentiometer value and the motor will spin at a speed consistent with that value.  This works with the motor under load so that it can actually be used.  This can be achieved due to the nature of the closed loopsystem under which the motor is operating.  The motor reports its speed back to the microcontroller and there it is determined whether the motor needs to spin faster or slower. This will be explained in more detail later in the report.
  
  The  inspiration  for  this  project  stems  from  the  Rowan  University  Formula  Electric Clinic.  That clinic is student run with the goal of building a fully-functional race ready formula style electric race car. The timeline is 2 years starting in the Fall of 2018. The clinic is split into two parts, a mechanical side and an electrical side. This design was created with research intent towards the electrical side.  Since the car is being built from the ground up, some of the parts and components need to be tested in house. This design is one of those test models and attempts to see if a motor controller could be created in house by the members of the team.  Hopefully this design will provide useful information that can be used by members of the Formula Electric team.
  
  The system that was created is a motor controller that communicates over CAN. There are  two  dsPIC33EV256GM102  microcontrollers  set  up  to  communicate  over  CAN. One reads, analyzes, and transmits data from a potentiometer.  The other reads the data from the first microcontroller as well as data from the hall effect sensor in the motor to control the speed of the motor. The second PIC will then determine whether the motor needs to speed up or slow down using an algorithm and transmit data in correspondence to the data received and send it to the gate drivers and motor drivers. These drivers will then spin the motor appropriately
